Now that we covered the important module types you can find in an Angular app, with the feature module
being the most important one,
let's dive into our first optimization concept because thus far, this entire code splitting of separating
our modules into separate modules was only cosmetical, it makes our code in the individual modules
leaner and it can help us with maintaining that code but it doesn't influence the performance of our
application at all.
This will change now because now we'll have a look at a concept called lazy loading and using multiple
modules, to be precise using multiple feature modules, is a prerequisite for that.
Now what is lazy loading?
Consider this application,
we have three routes -
our root route, slash nothing, /products and /admin
and of course, we have a user visiting this page.
Now every route is associated with a module,
our app module and then our different feature modules where each module of course might have multiple
components, multiple directives, pipes and so on that belong to it.
Now when our user visits the root route, we of course load that first module and we do the same when
we visit the different other pages
or do we?
Well actually at the moment, when we're not using lazy loading, whenever we visit any page, we load everything
but wouldn't it make more sense to only load products and admin when we actually visit these pages,
so that we only load the code that belongs to these areas of our application, that we only load the code
that belongs to these areas when we really need it.
That's the idea of lazy loading. With lazy loading,
we initially only load our root route content, so only the app module code and the code of all the components
that are registered there and we don't load the other modules and only when we visit another module,
like the admin module, so the admin route here, we load the admin module code and the code of all the
components that belongs to that module and the fact or the advantage of this is that initially, we download
a smaller code bundle and we download more code when we need it
but initially our app is able to start faster because it has to download and parse less code on the
first visit of a certain route and that's the advantage.
So let's now see how we do implement lazy loading in our app and let's see its effect.